Lots of information is free today, but uselessly so.

You might be able to download your emails from Google, but not in an easy to use way. You can get your Facebook info, but you can’t import it elsewhere. You can get all your photos out of Apple Photos, but not everything else. 

We need a technology that reduces the friction in sharing of information. Today, that friction enables concentration of power, so reducing it would decentralize power.

Of course, it would not fix every problem. Both Amazon and Facebook are heavily empowered by network effects — everyone goes there because everyone goes there.

I think those are too hard to start with, but unfortunately, they’re also the places with the most power, and thus to some extent, the biggest return.

It does seem that at least with Facebook, people are starting to figure out the downsides, and are beginning to ask how they can get the same benefits without giving someone else so much power. So maybe the right tech at the right time — not just another competitor, but something that prevented any competitor from ever getting this big — could have an impact.

But even if it could not do so there, it could do so.

Right now, we’re limited to a limited subset of formal document types, like photos and videos, that tend to be far more consumed than produced. Or at least, are rarely edited, and are treated like a finished product. We have multiple kinds of text, but most of them are a very limited kind — plaintext, maybe markdown (which is really just plaintext), and a bunch of proprietary formats. 

Photos are shared as a lump, and they include only a limited amount of information we all know is useful - album membership, tags, etc. Probably most importantly, the edit history is missing.

Does this just become a filesystem-as-a-database?

It’s got to have somewhat more than that, because I want to understand far more than modern filesystems do, but it seems suspiciously like reinventing them, and adding more information.

I do think you need a DNS-like network that people can subscribe to that defines schemas and file types. The ability to retrieve, edit, publish, share, compare the data types is critical. 