
I started this with ‘Why we hate working for big companies’, but there’s more to it than the fact that it’s an autocratic system, and all of the downsides (poor distribution of resources, low freedom).

It did not necessarily start this way, but it has turned into a mechanism for centralization, rather than one for collaboration. It was initially something that gave individuals more power — they could pool their resources, and as a result mitigate their risk while also doing larger projects. It was always a reinforcer of inequity, because only this with some wealth could even participate, but it didn’t inherently result in centralization.

Or did it? There weren’t 50 east India companies — there was really just the one. But wasn’t that mostly because the government was very strict on charters? If they had been willing to give others those same rights, maybe it would have been less concentrated in power.

I spend most of my time on this thinking about how genius it would be if I could come up with a corporation that didn’t have the downsides of the modern versions, but then some little time instead convinced that the only real solution is something that just doesn’t get big.

Is the question, how do I fix the big ones, or how do I empower the little ones?

Can you make big corporations that don’t have the same downsides as those that exist today? Is there any way? Wouldn’t that also just be concentrated?

A teeny little percent of me thinks instead that I’m actually trying to make a new kind of country, a new kind of state. Or maybe, wash away the difference between the two. What’s the difference between a country, with its own economy and own currency, and a company that owns a bunch of little companies, has its own currency, a central bank, and limited movement of capital? Isn’t it just a non-physical country? Could one of those exist that only had citizenship for the workweek? Isn’t that the main difference? That, and of course, it’s non-geographic.

This seems like a much larger problem than making it easier to share information.