
Story 1:
Observing my father:
* Time spent on low-value stuff
* Automation would have helped
* did eventually, but was too expensive

Story 2:
The Brad Nailer:
* I might be a carpenter if this had existed when I was a kid
* Because of the trim sunflower

Narrative:
* My dad struggled as a carpenter
* I changed away from it
* And built an automation company that allowed people to stay in their roles
* Because the products I built took away the parts that drove them away

Meta-story:
Automation:
* How to detect friendly automation
* Many companies have this problem
* Many people have it
* It’s not about automation, it’s about the human
* The paint dripping story is an example
* The lack of a brad nailer is part of the story too
	* Maybe I would not have fled carpentry if I had had this
* Related stories: Test pilots becoming astronauts. The engineers wanted to control the ships, but eventually lost out to the pilots being pilots, not passengers

People have a role in how quickly automation gets acquired, because they’ve learned not to trust the Automators when they show up, because historically they’ve been a tool for disempowerment and job losses.

Automation should re-center the human
It’s a process of removing things from people’s lives, rather than focusing on the things
I want to make people’s lives better, and this is the only way I’ve found to do that

What if we told the counter-narrative? How would someone tear the Compressor down, rather than build it up?

She likes the way I talk about productivity. Not really sure what this means. What sells her is the dream that she can finally do what she wants to do.

“Allow people to spend the majority of their time doing their best work”

“Do you have a problem that software would be great at solving?”

“Automation: Job destroyer, or creating room for creativity?”

“Finally have time to do more than the bare minimum”

“Better products increase the rate of return” - lower friction means faster distribution

Likes the words “healthy” and “automation” together.

Favorite line: “You would not ask a professional designer to use MS Paint”