# What parts of your network matter to you?
There are two parts: The people who we pay, and the people who pay us. Also, collaborators, e.g., copywriters, photographers. Also the referral network.

It matters to the extent that having all of these in place continues to pay the bills. But most tools in this space seem to be about getting bigger, we just want to provide for our family.

\<discussion of her aversion to growth, and just making more money\\\>

# What tasks do you perform?
We try to get FaceTime at least once or twice a year. Take people out to dinner, drinks, coffee, catch up, see how they’re doing. Thank you for business, doing a great job, etc.

Try to get up to PDX once a year because so many people are here.

Usually small scale connections, like having devs out for dinner.

## Do you just do all of this in your heads? Any tools?
It’s pretty automagic. Mostly just because the network is small, so it’s pretty easy.

The only thing we do that’s remotely regimented, we send cupcakes on either Valentine's Day or the first day of summer. Natalie handles that by going through Freshbooks.

## What kind of communication tools do you use?
Just email.

Slack with our team, email with most folks.

Asana for project management if there are enough people involved.

Only use texting with people you’d also count as friends.

Very few clients would ever get my cell phone number, people I’d take out to drinks.

## Any other interactions count as trying to invest in the network?
Not really.

# Do you think much about relationship health?
Yes, our actions are inherently based on the health of the relationship. If we work with someone and don’t take pleasure in it, we won’t work with them again.

If we have a positive relationship and it starts to sour, we’ll try to figure out what’s broken.

# What platforms and locations do you use for work?
We have a coworking space where I keep my Mac. I’m usually in there 3 days a week. Otherwise a MacBook Air I plug in at home and use at coffee shops.

I travel a lot to Arizona, often working by a pool.

Natalie works primarily on her laptop at a coffee shop, and sometimes go to LA.

## Neither really relies on your mobile device?
Only in an oh-shit situation. We have an iPad covered in 3” of dust.