# Why does your network matter to you?
Because I don’t get a paycheck without one. My job doesn’t exist with it.

## Talk about your work.
I’m a relationship manager at SVB. I maintain and develop my network in order to sell products and services to clients, and convert prospects into clients.

It’s a job that’s very dependent on my network, and networking.

# What kinds of specific tasks do you perform when networking? What is the *work* of networking?
Let me start with some use cases and examples, and we can extrapolate. I’ll use you (Luke) as an example. It’s kind of risky, because it feels like I’m using you, but... I kind of am.

Here we have a former founder, board member, chair, who we’ve worked with before. Prior company is still a client, he’s exited, and he’s out in the universe. He’s an important person, tapped into the scene, experienced, etc. High probability he’s going to go on to do... something. So, what do I do?

So he’s thinking about doing something, reaches out, says he probably wants a bank account. Great, we meet, we talk, talk about the whole ecosystem. I connect him to another person doing something similar, and I also connect him to someone in the private wealth group.

And then hopefully we’ll open bank accounts for him, and retain his business.

## What does it look like when people don’t reach out and contact you?
Almost always through a direct connection. I personally have not ever done a cold connect.

## Do you do networking events?
Totally. (We exchange brief story on running into each other at one.)

## Is this the kind of thing you expect to get out of these events?
Yes, but I also talk to lawyers, investors, all kinds of people.

## Is it fair to see connecting people as a critical currency?
Maybe the only value I add. :) Yes, connecting dots is a critical part of it. It’s the biggest value add I can bring, and it’s the thing I like best about the job.

# We talked about how networking affects your current job, but there are other things: Career development, personal, etc. Do you think about those?
I don’t think so much about career development now. :) One of the reasons I took this job is to continue to develop the startup community here, it matters a lot to me. It was about more than just having a job.

On social and personal, I have a huge problem. I have been a CFO forever, and now I’m in sales. I feel horribly guilty going to happy hours and events, because “that’s not work”.

## Can you add a little color to that “that’s not work”?
My colleague, he’s been in sales his whole life, and that’s work to him. To me, I went and did a social activity, and that doesn’t qualify as work. That’s sitting at my desk, and doing something I like less. That’s not exactly it, but I struggle to define social events as work. 

## But even some CFOs do a lot of networking. What’s the difference?
I was more at smaller companies. I think that’s the difference.

Although even then I’m exaggerating a bit. I did a lot of working with people outside, but it’s a much bigger part of my job now.

# Are there parts of your job now that you really do dislike, that you’d like to make go away?
Yes. I’ll do everything in my power to avoid cold calling. I haven’t done it yet.

## Is there something particular about cold calling? Is it just in sales, or full stop?
I am a shy extrovert, so I think a lot of it’s just that.

## Sometimes people have to work with a tool...
Oh yeah. Our tools suck.

## What tools are they? Why do they suck? Does anyone think it’ll be better?
It’s MS Dynamics, and it’s so old it’s not supported. We’re sticking with them, but something modern. We can actually use it on our phones. The bar is very low.

## Do you have any systems you have to supplement your tools and workflows?
Two spreadsheets. What’s in them is what should be in a CRM. It’s not in there because they’re terrible.

I tried not to rely on excel, but the existing tools just did not work for me.

My colleague Kyle, been at the bank for 13 years, doesn’t use a spreadsheet. Has a fantastic memory, and has been around long enough. He doesn’t really need the help.

I could not keep it all straight, so I had to structure it.

## Do you have a system for people who you don’t see as potential clients but still want to stay close to?
Oh yeah. There are multiple tabs in the “clients” spreadsheet. Investors, angels, influencers, etc.

## Why are they in the Clients spreadsheet, instead of Prospect?
Prospects was originally a tab in Clients, but it turned out a colleague and I had to work together on that, so we put it in One Note, because part of our org wants us to use that.

## Do you really behave differently around the different types of data, or was it really just a need to collaborate?
It’s just that I had to work with this guy.

With clients, they’re mine or someone else’s. But with prospects, we have to coordinate.

# Are there tasks in your tools that are just tedious, that you’re upset you have to do, that take a lot of your time?
I want to say yes, but... it’s hard. What drives me nuts is having to maintain these spreadsheets.

But either way, I’m the person who had this interaction, and so I don’t know how it could be done very differently from having me input the information.

## How much time do you spend maintaining the spreadsheets?
Not actually that much. I take notes in meetings. Less so when face to face. I’ll take notes in person, then write more after. I wish I could write more in person.

I’m personally struggling to balance keeping those tools updated with just keeping the notes.

## Do you continue to use the notes after you put them in the spreadsheets?
Yes, I do. 70% of them I don't use, but I get a lot of value from writing them. The other 30% I do go back and reference. Part of that is I’m still learning, and part of that is you have 4 discussions on the way to putting a term sheet together.

I’ll also go back and look at notes from where I’m learning from someone about a product — “Our new credit card offering”.

That’s a whole different thing: Product information.

Take loans. We probably have ten different types. I need to understand and track all of them. It’s sort of like product sheets.

## Do you ever have difficulty finding information?
In the midst of all this? Yes. “Somebody sent a PPT around. Who was it? Where do I find it? Etc.”

I end up saving it in two folders, to make it more likely to be able to find it.

Even then I might say, Chris Steadman did that presentation, look in my calendar, see he spoke on the 8th, look at my notes from the 8th, go from there.

## How do you handle private information? What kinds of precautions are you supposed to take? Is there a policy?
(Much laughter.) There was a recent policy: Every message is categorized in one of four levels of privacy. I don’t know all the security measures. We have a fancy VPN, all kinds of stuff. And now if I try to send something and attach a confidential doc, it will just prevent me?

# How do you think about relationship health as a concept?
Comfort level of contacting, and responsiveness. If I feel like I can reach out, but I don't know if they’ll respond, that’s a metric. If they respond quickly, that’s a metric.

That’s one of the things that DataHug does for us.

## What’s that?
It’s a contact tracking and measurement tool. (Medallia is the relationship measurement tool, includes an NPS measurement tool.)

DataHug is a contact measurement tool. It will present who else has contacted, and when we talked to them. It will email me periodically ping me if people are getting further away.

## Do you find it useful?
Modestly, yes, a lot of it no. It’s particularly helpful when I’m first engaging with someone. When’s the last time we heard from them, who heard from them, etc.

Imagine one of my clients is fundraising and wants to be intro’d to True Ventures. We have a lot of internal stuff, because we bank for VCs, but I can also look to see who internally has been most consistently in contact with True.

## Is it safe to say it’s most useful for estimating who has the best relationship with someone, vs tracking your own relationship health?

## Do you set goals for your relationships? E.g., I want to reach out to this person every month, or I want to get closer to this person?
On the first, no, but on the second, yes. And for that I use (oh god, you’re making me realize how many tools I use) Trello. I use a super simple board for Important, Todo, and Waiting.

My work is a combo of that board and my inbox, because things left in my inbox are undone tasks.

## ‘I have the goal of staying close to them’ vs “I have the goal of reaching out to them”
Yes. I track the health, and I don’t think much about the specific mechanism.

## Does the Trello board work well.
I have found it to be a useful addition, mostly for the Important list.

(Confirmed Trello is generally her task mgmt app, not just comms.)

# What is the geographic concentration of your network?
Portland Metro, State, Seattle, Bay Area.

## Do you travel frequently?
Some, not a ton. Once or twice a month. Compared to going to Africa...

## When you travel, how are you planning that?
It’s usually related to something internal to my company. I was in Seattle with folks from PDX, because my local colleagues had organized an event. Next week I’m going to Austin for an internal managing directors meeting.

## When you travel, do you reach out to other people to connect with them?
Seattle, yes. Austin, no.

## How do you decide who to meet with and when? What kinds of meetings do you have?
Who can be most useful to my... companies? Community?

My first thought is, I’m going to Seattle, is there anyone there it would be useful to connect with for my clients or prospects.

But like last week, Jon Moroney from OVF was up there with me, and he’s not a client or prospect, but connecting him to other people up there is really valuable.

## Once again the intros are useful.
Not just the introductions, but repeat.

# What platforms, devices do you use?
MS shop, top to bottom. No, wait, that’s not true. No, it is true.

We’re about to get surface pros. Either android or iPhone.

## Do you find you do most of your work at your desk? Primarily face to face, outside of the office?
A lot of both. And phone calls.

# I keep thinking about your notes. Would it be useful if you could save a picture of your notes, attached to all the metadata?
Let me think.

Yes. I have a prospect. I have had multiple meetings. I keep having to go through my physical notebook, back to that first conversation. I would love it if it were electronically available. 

And really, I still want it in my handwriting, with my particular way of taking notes. I’ve got name and participants, topics I want to cover, etc. Where I put certain notes matters, and I use special markers, and all that matters.

# After this deep dive, do you think a little differently about what is expert work for you, what you bring to the job?
That is really hard for me to answer. It’s all wrapped up in connecting with people.

We’ve talked internally about tasks that should be offloaded from people like me, because they’re not a good use of my time (e.g., entering new client data into the CRM, or having to follow up on operational issues like increasing credit card limit a modest amount).

That’s an interesting question.

Then there’s the issue of... This is a big thing, but not sure if it’s important to you.

We’re in a small market, so we cover everything from early stage, to $75m in revenue. That’s a big spread. In larger markets, the smaller end of the is hived off to a completely separate division. Only when they grow do they transfer.

In our particular case, we spend a lot more time with those early stage companies. A lot of that time will not end up in profitable work for the bank. If I didn’t have to do that, I would have more time on better work.

# What things surprise you that others find hard, because you think it’s so easy?
Huh. Interesting question.

Understanding why clients behave the way they do.

'Why does it take so long to respond?’ Because they’re taking the trash out, literally, they have fires to put out, etc. We have zero visibility.

They can’t just send us a projection, because those change so often, and they have to make sure the CEO and board have reviewed it and is on board. 

It’s just understanding the client’s life.

## Have you found that to be an advantage?
Oh yes. Frequently clients understand I have been in their shoes. It increases trust, because there’s a sense of empathy. And I can provide better guidance. 