# 2020.10.26 - a week off

## Context
I’m about a month into vertigo. I had maybe allergies for a couple of weeks before that. I’ve not been drinking this October (since 10/2 or so), both to help with the vertigo, and also because I’ve not been sleeping well. And, well, I clearly cannot keep my drinking to a moderate level.

I’m more exhausted than I think I’ve ever been. I can work for half an hour, maybe an hour, then I have to lie down. Sometimes I can work for a couple of hours in the morning, but then I usually get hit hard.

The vertigo is mild. For the first couple of weeks I thought it was a side effect from the allergies, or maybe the allergy medicine (Zyrtec). Then, as I talked about it, I realized I was unsteady on my feet, I could not walk well. I slowly worked up to realizing that fighting it was part of what was making me so tired. I took a MaxAlt that first night, and felt a lot better within an hour or so. This was Friday, 10/1, I think.

I can only take my migraine medicine three times a week. That seems to have made me hesitant to take it. It does not last for days, from what I can tell. I took it yesterday, and am feeling some vertigo this morning. It’s hard to say. I always feel best in the mornings.

My big monitor is not helping. Side to side head motion is a killer, and, well, it’s all about that.

### Added on day 2:
I’m also hungry all the time right now. Weirdly so. I am eating three squares, and at least two snacks. I figure at least part of this is just not drinking. I’ve cut 300-500 (or maybe even 700) calories a day from my diet. That has to go somewhere.

But I have also stopped all exercise. I figure that would reduce my calorie burn enough that I wouldn’t be hungry. But I guess not.

Unless it’s just not related to the lack of drinking. I don’t really know. I have a lot of complicated stuff going on.

## I’m burned out
I should not be. I’m not working many hours. I get started around 9:30 most days, and finish by 6:30. I often get started later and finish earlier. I take lunch. I work out three times a week. (Well. I was before the vertigo and fatigue.)

Some of it is obviously just the situation we’re in. The election, the Supreme Court, COVID. My marriage. Maybe not in that exact order.

I’m thinking it was a mistake to start a new company. I’m excited to build this product, for this company to exist. But it feels like the scar tissue is holding me back. I’m not psychologically healthy. And I’m not sure I ever will be. Or at least, I might never be able to do what I did at Puppet. I am afraid of hiring, I don’t want to do any marketing. There’s so much that repels me.

I don’t know if it’s fair, but I’m blaming a lot of my burnout on how much of my twitter feed is other crap in the industry. Lots of VCs, lots of journalists, lots of industry stuff. My lens on the outside world is smeared with the stuff I do all day. Except it’s not the fun stuff, the stuff I like. It’s the stuff I hate. And of course, Twitter is only a view. It’s not reality. It’s a projection, a fiction.

## What do I like?
But that leads to a problem.

If I filled my twitter stream with things I liked... what would that be?

There are work things I enjoy doing. But... I can’t really read about product management any more. Or being a founder. Or startups. Or venture. I’m not entirely sure why. Some of it is scar tissue. Just being in pain. Feeling like, I was going to be here, I was going to be a player, and now... not so much.

I can’t escape this feeling of being in a liminal state. “If only Puppet...” is the start of so much of my fantasy.

I refuse to buckle down like a normal founder would have to.

But I can’t live the high flying life a successful founder would have, either.

But that liminality is not all of it.

They say if you can’t find the book you want to read, you have to write it.

I kind of tried that. But... I am frightened of writing a book. And honestly, I’m not sure I have anything book-worthy.

My writing has cratered since I concluded I should be writing a book on expertise.

Now I basically can’t write at all.

What would I write about? My time as a founder? My own experience, second time around?

It all feels so trite. So tired. So duplicative.

I enjoyed writing about privacy. (Written ages ago, but finally published last week.) It’s a big topic, relevant to what we’re doing now, and somewhat topical over all.

I bought [a book on aspiration](https://www.powells.com/book/aspiration-9780190085148), based on [a review](https://think-boundless.com/aspiration-agnes-callard/?utm_source=rss&utm_medium=rss&utm_campaign=aspiration-agnes-callard). I don’t struggle with the same problems he does. It looks like I’m a lot older. And I was never ambitious, as he would put it. I have never cared about society’s definition of success.

But I have deep unanswered questions about what I want. Or even, what I like.

I like taking photos. I’ve *loved* having printed photos in our small bathroom.

I like being famous. But... for what? It’s clear that I don’t want to be famous for DevOps. I don’t know that I want to be famous for making managers and leaders consider themselves experts.

I like having an impact.

But I’ve given up on having one outside of my box. I am allowed to build products that people like. But nothing else.

Even thinking of trying to have an impact anywhere is too depressing for words.

## I’m depressed
I’m not just burned out. It feels a bit like high school again. Digging out from the bottom of a deep hole. Most days it’s not worth digging. Meh. I’ll just hold. It will get better someday. But not right now.

I thought freedom was my problem. Lash me back to a problem and I’d perk up a bit.

It helped. But not nearly as much as I’d have liked. And it seems to have made other parts worse. I am confronted again with all of my past failures. Or at least, my conviction of failure. My feeling that no amount of effort will let me succeed at the table stakes for what I want to do.

Just thinking about hiring makes me tear up a bit. Can I hire a couple of people, and let them do the hiring? Can I hand off a bunch of this to someone else?

I don’t want to be a magnate.

But I want to have the impact of one.

I feel washed up. My first run didn’t quite make it, and I don’t think I have it in me for a second one.

# Day 2
I’m much more tired than I would like. A gigantic gravity well drags me down every time I look at my email. So it’s not all fatigue. I’m definitely at least partially burned out.

This election is going to determine the mood of a *lot* of people. I know it will mine.

I don’t think I’ve learned anything since yesterday. I’ve thought nothing new.

No idea when my book on aspiration will get here. Or, obviously, if it will be good.

I started reading a book on systems thinking, but of course, it’s for people who aren’t systems thinkers, so, ah, not very useful.

I ordered the rest of the expanse series in paperback, and planned to pick it up at Powell’s. But no word on when I’ll be able to do that. So, not this week. I’ve started rereading the Ancillary Justice series instead. It’s ostensibly similar — a sci-fi series that looks a lot like a space opera — but much tighter, more emotional, more fraught. Expanse is faster, with multiple climaxes per book, where Ancillary Justice is keeping a lot hidden, building up to something while we get to know the characters. Or maybe just, character.

I’ve also started replaying the Drake’s Fortune series. Tomb Raider (20th anniversary?) was a good escape, but a bit more fiddly than I wanted. I just can’t get into Tony Hawk for some reason. “Yeah, I definitely want to wander around looking for stuff.” So, I’ll hit something that I at least used to really enjoy, and think was beautiful.

Hard mode is still hard, at least one 1. I think I’ve finished the hardest scenes (the underground cavern, and the Trapped area), but I don’t really remember. They were hard, but not crazy hard. Also, my brain doesn’t work.

## Work Environment
I’m worried about my monitor. What if I just can’t use it? Or at least, can’t use it for three months out of the year?

Of course, from what I remember, I couldn’t use the 27” iMac, either. So it’s not just my big monitor. It’s anything not-small.

Lillian has basically claimed my laptop. I’m hoping Apple will announce perfect laptops for them, and I can buy those. Then I guess I’ll use the crappy old Intel machine. :/

I keep vacillating on the camera and microphone. I think I’m going to keep the Røde mic after all. The other one is just too complicated to use on a daily basis. Seems too quiet, I keep forgetting to pull it toward me, etc.

It looks like I’ll be able to hook up my camera in a way that powers it and doesn’t require lots of weird settings. That is probably what I’ll go back to. But it had some flaws before. It didn’t handle weird lighting conditions well, and my setup is a perfect example of those.

I still hope to move into the basement. But we’re not closer to an answer for how we’d do that. The girls desperately want their own room. I’m fine to move. But we have a bunch of reconstruction to do, and we don’t really know how much, at this point. Or at least, we haven’t decided. And it’s clearly going to be very disruptive. (As is that massive humidifier, in my office.)

## What do I like?
Taking photos. Especially landscape, but I’ve learned to enjoy taking photos of the kids, and the family in general.

Mountain biking.

Playing video games.

Reading sci-fi, and sometimes fantasy.

Travel.

Exploring.

## What work things do I like?
Solving problems people care about. But that’s a company-level thing.

Working through how to solve them. Building plans. Writing up pitches. Doing the mechanics of product management. Giving feedback. Seeing progress.

What parts of being a CEO do I like?

I mean. That’s one of the problems. Our tools are so bad, most parts of being a CEO suck, because it’s all delegation. I’m not allowed to be an expert at anything.

It’s also hard because the more people we have, the harder it is for me to maintain the attitude I need. The more it costs me. Even the five employees I have now are adding up.

I like designing systems. I like seeing them run. I am not terribly good at running them, at the details and disciplines, but I’m good at making them better.

I like learning new things.

I like understanding the business as a system, and trying to improve it.

It’s easy to see my time as CEO as only something I disliked. But I enjoyed a lot of it. It’s hard to see them, in the light of so much of what I detested. But I really did like having my hands in marketing, in operations, in finance. I enjoyed building out the business. I enjoyed having employees. Building a place people wanted to work, enjoyed being at.

I kind of enjoyed the access it gave me. But... that’s nowhere near my most important point. A lot of the really access-driven stuff (Aspen, WSJ, etc.) I found pretty yucky, and likely wouldn’t attend again.

## I don’t want to play the access game
I know I will need to, at least to some extent. But I’ve clearly spent the last few years thinking a lot about being in VC, which means thinking about access capital: Getting famous, so I can get access to the best deals.

I know I don’t ever want to do this.

There are other ways. Harrison Metal is the best example of that.

But there aren’t a bunch of examples. I dunno

# I’m still intrigued by this other identity
I keep thinking about doing that podcast — The Undecorated. Or the Brutalist.

But it’s one more commitment. One more step toward burnout. And I don’t need that extra help.

I’m not sure I have anything else to say here I haven’t already said.

# End of the week
Last week was really hard. I was flat out exhausted most of the week, and one day — Wednesday or Thursday — was even worse. I did basically nothing all week but sit on the couch and read, and play video games. I accomplished nothing on my list, and forgave myself for it.

This writing is more bleak than my life actually is. I think my marriage status is causing a lot of stress, as is the election. But otherwise, things are going pretty well. I had hoped to reach out to therapists last week, but did not succeed. Because, you know, I did nothing.

I began the week in a mixed mode of, I need rest, but also, there is a lot to do. By mid-week it became clear that rest was my only real option. I couldn’t do anything else.

I am improved this week, but not yet well. Yesterday I worked most of the morning, took some downtime, then put in a couple more hours. I had a call in the afternoon with Joe Leiva, then laid down and wrote for a while. I was feeling pretty rough at the end of the call, but much better after the writing session.

Then I did a brief arms workout and watered the plants, and I was floored again. I felt like I’d taken MaxAlt, with the weird vision and gross stomach, but I hadn’t.

It’s definitely vertigo, but it’s also something more than that. The fatigue is new, and wicked.

I’m meeting with the Dr again, in hopes of figuring out what. Or rather. I don’t have hope. But I should try anyway.

My summary is basically, October is turning out to be a very tough month, but mostly for reasons I can’t control and should not let myself get despondent over. That being said, I do have real problems, and I need to take more active control over them.

## Things to maybe do on vacation
- [ ] Send political donations
- [ ] Convert from Wordpress to Hugo
- [ ] Attach camera and microphone mounts to computer
- [ ] Decide on some raspberri pi’s for the girls
- [ ] Finish the Expanse series (books; I just finished #2)
- [ ] Clean the van
- [ ] Get the kids’ mountain bikes tuned
- [ ] Get the HomePod working with FaceTime
- [ ] Reassess my twitter list. Remove a lot of venture stuff. It’s making you unhappy. Maybe cut down on journalists, too?
- [x] Absolutely nothing
- [ ] Call friends and family
- [ ] Start on Xmas cards
- [ ] Go take photos somewhere
- [ ] Go camping for a night or so

I read a bunch of sci-fi and played video games.
