The picture is pretty clear:

I know what the studio is. I know how to do it. I think it is risky but doable. 

I think it will be hard but not impossible to get funding. I would like funding; it will make my life much easier, in lots of ways. It will get us moving faster.

But it will also force a focus that I don’t really want.

Is the focus really necessary?
  
If everyone is just betting on me, why not make that more explicit? “This is one of the things I’ll be doing, but really, this is a bet on me, and I’ve got a ton of ideas.”

Similarly, when I compare the difficulty of a studio, where I’m really starting from scratch, to a fund, where I have to work hard to find people but don’t actually have to start from scratch, is the studio the right bet? I think it’s true that I’ll have a hard time raising money, but... will I have a harder time raising money for a fund than for a studio?

Honestly, I’m not even trying that hard to make the financial case for this.

I left out the entire justification — no mention of companies, returns, market sizes. I love my piece, but it’s a statement piece, not something that gets you a funding round. Duh.

I haven’t learned anything in two months, and haven’t learned much in six.

I’m sitting here wasting my time.

If I could only do one thing tomorrow, what would it be?

Build an app to help me do things I want to do.

Where would that leave the compressor?

Well, it would leave it as not exactly a hobby, but a thing I’m doing part time.

I’m at least a little bit worried about getting addicted to programming, finding myself down the rabbit hole but not actually successfully making things, making products, just playing around.