# Decision time at Clickety
My gut says it's just too hard. There have been too many times where we could not realistically communicate. I swore I would never again go into couples therapy, and it's clear that that's what's necessary here.

I don't like the look. "Equal gender team adds two men, loses only woman."

But that's not a good reason to make the wrong decision here.

I'm actually waffling over something else.

What does this say about me, in the long term? What if I can only collaborate with a couple of people?

Or really, what if I can't partner with people, I only can tell them what to do, at least in some sense?

I mean. Just because I can talk to Rick doesn't mean I can work with him to build software.

Maybe my destiny is building products to the point where I've proven it, and then handing it off to someone else?

That would be pretty lame.

Is the studio idea -- build a discipline around this learning process -- is that just kaput? Impossible?

Do I "deserve" to have a team basically just do what I want?

Is my brain, my feeling, my thinking, so special that I just demand to be the seed crystal?

In some sense, that's a silly question. I should try. And I'll either succeed or fail. That will, at least for that, then, answer the question.

What will make me more likely to succeed when I try again?

Obviously the first one is to look for that click, that feeling of communicating through a super conductor.

And, well, honestly, someone who feels some amount of respect, someone who actively wants to learn from me. I think without that, there won't be enough motivation to listen to me.

But at the same time, they have to be willing to push more with me than they might with someone else. They have to have enough belief and trust to stick.

And they have to believe that I am trying to do the right thing, and am willing to listen. They have to follow Hanlon's Razor with me. If you don't trust me enough for that, you should not join the company.

----

How much of this is just my running from complexity? "I'm free! ....to re-entangle myself in something else I 'll soon want to escape."