It’s become clear over the winter break that I’m in a holding pattern in far more ways than around the studio.

I’m literally just doing nothing. A little writing, although even that is mostly turned internal, with little visible output. Sure, I could blame that on the constipation around the fund/studio, but either way, it looks a lot like I let “writing” become the one thing I did every day, and then I came up with a good reason to stop doing it.

I guess I started thinking about it because I played so many video games over the holiday:

One of the starkest memories I have as CEO, father, and husband is lying on the floor at home, with no idea what to do.

I had a long list of what not to do: I should not keep working. I should not keep thinking about work. I should not do something selfish. Even reading seemed too much for me, and of course, I only really was reading stuff for work, not for pleasure, so it failed the first tests.

I should help the family. I should be present.

Except I rarely knew how to do that. I could almost never find the right way to integrate into dinner, or whatever was happening at home. 

So I’d lie on the floor. It’s nice to stretch out, but it was capitulation. A clear sign I gave up.

I’m haunted by other, more complicated memories, too.

I’m not sure I’ve ever done anything more addictive than write code. Even just working on the stupid calendar plugins got me fully pulled in.

Yet, instead of seeing that as a positive sign, I took it as a warning and backed away.

The only thing I actively love doing, that I’ve actually spent hours on and felt fully rewarded by, instead was seen as something bad, something to be avoided.

I think it’s related to lying on the floor.

It doesn’t feel safe to get pulled into something that I have a hard time stepping away from. This sounds insane, but better that I not know what to do, than that I do the wrong thing. Or something.

Obviously crazy, yet actually what I’ve been doing.

I could have spent the last two years doing experiments on my own ideas, yet instead I’ve done almost nothing. A lot of thinking, but mostly in small chunks, and easily stopped.

Of course, it’s more than that, it always is. Nothing is easy or simple with me.

I also feel like I *shouldn’t* be the coder any more. I should specialize in.... something else.

To some extent this is true. I don’t think I could ever be as up to date on the actual code as someone spending all their time on it. I’m certainly way behind on all kinds of practices, and I’ve no interest whatsoever in learning modern web development.

What I really want is someone who I can collaborate closely with, who can be part of my learning loop and work with me on what I want.

But of course, I don’t have such a person, and am in no danger of acquiring one any time soon.