# 2019.12.03 - Clickety, funding, products
There are so many choices to make, and so few of them have obvious consequences.

The biggest but probably easiest is funding.

I should raise money. It gets me there faster, it fits into the system, I can find people to support it, and I really believe in what I’m doing. I need this product, and I believe I can build one many people will use.

That being said, I definitely underestimated how much this would be an emotional roller coaster. Full on panic attacks. Good times.

I probably should not buy Contacts+. I bet I could find funding, and if I did, we could likely double or triple the price, drop the free tier entirely (or maybe dramatically limit it), and rake in a ton of cash. But it would also be a distraction, in multiple ways. It’s not our long term direction, so it would always be pulling us down the wrong path. And running a business is just hard, and always will be.

I guess I do know what I should be doing, it’s just for some reason I’m not doing it.

There’s a long path, but really... I know what it is, and I’m excited about it.

Maybe the actual question is, I’m much more interested in the open, distributed, standards-based, decomposable product. And these are seemingly at odds with standard SV companies these days. That doesn't mean people *won’t* invest, but it definitely makes it harder.

I need to get better at writing those things down, and then being clear when I’m choosing one of those paths, and when I’m not.

I need to write more.