# Clickety Depression
I haven’t really written in 9 months or so.

Some of this was definitely fright at the thought of a book. Or maybe, fright at my inability to work around the topic that seemed book-length. And it’s been somewhat healthy to get away from the stress of publishing weekly. Or rather, to be able to focus on what I want, not what others might find interesting.

Some was technical. I do not like Wordpress as my platform, and the compromises from Ulysses have become more than I would like.

A lot was just failing to keep time for me. My writing is mostly for public consumption, but is also “Luke strategy” time. Is that also Clickety strategy? Unclear. It’s certainly Compressor time.

I miss writing, and I want to get back to it.

---

I have had a bad couple of weeks. The last ten days or so has been the first feeling of real depression in at least a year. Full listlessness, approaching anxiety at times. I’m at the hardest part in Clickety, where I know how big the hill is now, but have not really climbed it at all.

Part of that is certainly concerns that I cannot work well enough with Lizzi. Or maybe, that she’s not the right partner. We’re five months in and have no product to show, no tool I can use. That seems not ok. 

I had a weird, painful, concerning conversation with her on Monday — before I met with investors and she went to StrangeLoop — about the possibility of my doing any programming. She’s very concerned about my penchant for meta programming, and very focused on what makes teams work rather than what gives us the chance to have that problem.

I don’t even know how to have this conversation, and it scares the crap out of me.

It’s so easy to just think, screw it, I’ll figure it out. But I’ve already proved that doesn’t scale, I know I need lots of help, and I honestly truly don’t want to be the person who figures out and manages all the inane detail to make all this this work.

My problem is I can’t escape the feeling that this is the most fun thing to do. That no puzzle has ever been as addictive as writing code.

It’s not 100% true. Other implementation puzzles are also great. And I really do like the ethnographic work I do with customers. I have some line on more of that to do, which is great.

---

But I don’t know entirely why I’m depressed, just that I am. It’s mostly work, but not all.

Fundraising is definitely part of it. I really hate fundraising. The work of building a presentation was just fucking depressing. I fucking hate slides. I hate the thought of working through a deck while talking to people. I hate the need to thin my thoughts down. I hate the work of iteration in slides, instead of in words, in stories. I hate the pantomime that this is the best way to convey information. Yuck.

I feel relieved and like I can progress again, now that I’ve decided just to focus on text. I can build the pitch. I can build the landing page. I can write the web site. 

I don’t want to ask people’s permission. I am deeply frustrated by the need to convince anyone else. I am especially frustrated that I can’t just show them. I want to hand them my phone and watch them use the app, to see just how much better it is. I want to let them download it, and see for themselves how useful it is.

I don’t know if I’m right, but I know my ideas tend to not sound that great. I could never have convinced people to invest in Puppet sight unseen, and really, even with it done no one would have it. It’s only when people actually used it that I got credit for it.

I need to focus on the fundraising from angels. I’d love to have an anchor investor, but I don’t need one. Even just getting a few hundred grand in the bank would go a long way. I could add one person to the team, and would be at least in motion.

I’ve made progress on this, but man it’s slow. I think once Dan is back in the saddle it will move quickly, but.. yuck.

---

Family life is... normal. Little shift in the last couple of years. Or maybe, lots of shifting, but still landing in a pretty similar equilibrium. No big spikes recently, but also no new confidence we can handle spikes. Kids are getting tougher and easier in equal measure. The van is a weight on my life that I can’t decide what to do with.

---

My health is utter shit. I’ve been some form of injured since I left Puppet, starting almost immediately. My drinking is some part of my health issues, too, but it’s unclear how much. I did not feel healthier, taking six months off. Really, I felt little of anything different in those six months.

I think it might be different now that I have a purpose, that I’m not just prepping for a trip but really working on something. But who knows?

I know I have not been able to cut back. I’m still averaging 3 a day, rather than 2. And I’m drinking pretty literally every single day. And too often, I have 4, or 5. Not daily. Not as bad as it was. But too often.

And now that I know it’s linked to headaches and vertigo in some sort of weird way, I can tell there’s some reinforcement that’s not good for me.

I think I’ve mentally made enough of a plan that when I am healthy again I can start working on both martial arts and weight lifting again. But at this point, with my shoulder, I’m not sure I can do any of them.

But I’m just about ready to try.