# 2020.05.03 - ages and quarantine
About six weeks in quarantine. A couple of things are going well. I have a workout habit for the first time in my life. I’m slowly building up my writing habit again, although apparently not yet my publishing one. The company isn’t knocking things out of the park, but is at least beginning to feel like an organism instead of some dangling parts.

I’m having a very tough time personally. Drinking way, way too much. I’ve gone through phases where it’s been under control, but they all fall off. I build some rules, keep discipline on them for a bit, then just... stop. And I’m back to 4 or 5 a day. I’m keeping it mostly below the threshold of hangover, but that probably says more about my increased fitness than it does my reduced alcohol intake.

I’m also just less satisfied at home. I don’t know how much of this is quarantine: What you’re experiencing is unrelenting, so even small things can feel like big ones. Cindy and I are probably giving each other a little less leeway, a little less benefit of the doubt right now. 

I know it’s not all that. I’ve been frustrated for a long time, feeling like our marriage is winding down, and I only see signs making it worse, not better. And all of the tools I might use — mostly, talking, trying to understand, trying to drive change — I know will only make it worse. I feel like we’ve reached a kind of detente. This is as good as it’s going to get. We know each other’s plays, we know our responses to them, and we’re kind of settled into the situation.

I could break it by making it worse. But I’ve no idea how to break it by making it better.

It’s apparently been a very tough week for me. My team mostly seemed to have a bad one the week before, but this one was especially bad for me, it seems like. It was my second week of a basically full calendar, because of all the user interviews. And the second week of feeling a lot less confident that we’re building something useful. And the first week (technically starting last Friday) trying to sort through the first big work frame conflict for me. I can tell I have a lot of fear and scar tissue to sort through when it comes to management. 

We’ll figure it out. Nothing is really wrong at work, it was just a hard couple of weeks.

Very hard, apparently. Crying a bit as I write this.

I’m sure it’s all just everything. It’s not surprising it’s hard. I did pretty well at first, reaching out to people, but now I can’t imagine doing so. The thought of having a phone call with someone about how I’m actually doing is surprisingly frightening. Which I guess tells me I’m doing a lot worse than I thought. I’ve traded a bunch of checking in texts, but nothing substantive. And I guess the longer I go, the harder it gets.