# 2020.05.03 - Identity
The talk about how to use Twitter, by the Gumroad founder, really bothered me.

It only somewhat bothered me in the moment, because it seemed like he was skipping a lot of hard questions. But once I reviewed his twitter feed, it really did.

I mean, sure, no one is their online presence. But there isn’t even a person on his twitter feed, just a pithy something. Like it’s an art installation instead of a human.

Part of why it is so frustrating, though, is that I want to do something like he has done: I want to find a way to express some part of myself more purely, without the self-doubt that plagues me.

I’ve been toying with The Brutalist for a while. There are all kinds of reasons I haven’t done it, but certainly a large part of it is just not being able to thin things down. Not being able to find enough of a voice that I can follow it and cut out the rest.

And of course, the truth is, it works the other way: You have to try to find it, first, and only through investment and effort do you find your voice, through some combination of revelation and processing.

Part of it is just that I don’t really know what I want my identity to be. I’d love not to be known as being brutal, but it’s just the truth. My best efforts lead to people still hearing  it as some kind of brutal truth.

Brutalist does fit. But I’ve failed to act on it.

I could also go with undecorated. In some ways it’s a better name. It has a bit of a “huh?” To it, as opposed to “brutalist” which brings a lot of meaning along with it. It can also be singular or plural, unlike ‘brutalist’, so it’s a good name for a podcast or web site. It’s definitely not as cool, though. And it doesn’t have the strong contrast to my actual personality, so it’s not as aggressive in trying to get me to reveal something else.

I dunno what the answer here is, but I do think I need to do something. I can’t keep on like this. I’m in a holding pattern.

Doing more writing, and getting more help on writing, should help. But it won’t be enough on its own.