# 2021.03.15
This is at least the second Monday in a row I’m depressed to the point of incapacitation. Or maybe that was two weeks ago?

Last Monday I concluded it was mostly because I just hadn’t done anything in ages. I made a point to go outside every day. I did a couple of rides. I got sunlight on my face.

Maybe it’s the same thing this Monday. It is gray and dreary, and I barely made it out of the house over the weekend. But I don’t think so.

Clickety is bumming me out.

We’re just not getting enough done. I can’t figure out how to talk about it. There’s too much to do, and I’m not doing any of it, yet I don’t have a team to do it all. Rick and I have a solid relationship, except that I still find myself rocked back by his requests/demands way too often.

I so don’t want to raise money. And it’s so the wrong time to do it. But, well, I need it. Dammit.

I think, mostly, it’s just that the product isn’t there. It’s barely a thing. And nowhere near the thing we need it to be.

I think I need to take up my writing time again. I wasn’t getting much done, but it was an important outlet. And writing is again a much bigger part of my job, whether it’s on the web site, for pitching, or whatever else.

I can’t get rid of this fucking vertigo fast enough. I’ve not exactly been crippled, but man, it’s so obvious I’ve been degraded for months on end. I want my big monitor. I want speakers. I want to sit at my desk. I want multiple places to work.

I need perspective. I need advice from someone, both personal and professional.

Alcohol has to be at least partially at fault. Taking up parts of my days. A “relief” without fixing anything. Making my sleep worse.

It’s a relief to write about it all. But only as a release valve, not as any sort of solution.