I woke up to this message from Rick, after mentioning to him yesterday the idea of visiting Nashville, possibly as early as this week:

	I guess my main question is around the specific/particular intent.
	
	It is straightforward to say that lack of in-person time causes drift and that getting in person helps with that drift, but that's not getting to the root of the urgency I don't think.
	
	There's a world in which "we now realize we're at risk of engineer turnover, how do we mitigate the cost to the company if that happens?" (answers: reaching out to other engineers, making the best use of extended runway, getting runbooks in place soon, getting the system to its stablest place, focusing on front-end/mobile/etc. uses of platform functionality, etc.) is a driver, though I believe that can be done remotely.
	
	The issue(s) that I raised last week, which I've been gradually raising for a few months now, seem to me to distill down to: you seem to need to have an intense level of control over so much of what happens in the organization (at many levels), and I, when I hear your stories and think back, see this as a thing that has probably gone on for a long time, and has been the cause of much pain for you and others over the years. I find myself running into this and I find it exacts a toll in energy/emotional drain, and I find it hard to have the space to work, and find myself mentally tallying whether my role has a future. If this is something that can happen to folks, if it appears to have been going on for a long time, if I find myself being one of those folks, I'm not interested in perpetuating that indefinitely into the future. The best thing I can do, I believe, is to find various ways to point out what I see, to get the company and its product in the best place I can, and then find a way to move on.
	
	So, ironically, if the intent of traveling is "I'm scared of what's happening, I need to exert control over this situation, and I'm going to fly in and do that" then it's actually precisely the wrong thing to do, from my perspective, if the core issue seems to be one of being weary of the over-extension of control.
	
	If the intent is one around "I need to talk with someone about the things I'm feeling because of the issues arising" then I'm sympathetic, and I'm interested in being helpful, but I didn't sign up to be a therapist/guru/chaplain/etc., and I know you have access to some very skilled folks whose talents and job descriptions are directly relevant to working through tough things.
	
	I think this probably leaves some seam of intent between these concerns where it might make sense to fly out here to get face-to-face time, but I'm not sure what's in that seam and would be interested to hear more.
	
	I don't foresee Wilkes or I resigning this week or probably even the next if we're working on shipping datomic, covering interrupt work, and trying to keep folks from being blocked, so there's a limit to how urgent things are in that regard. I know that no matter what emerges that we're trying to bring the system to the desired state, and one which future engineers have great tools to keep building features for a great product.

Cindy asked me many questions. My rough response was that it brings up so many problems I don’t even know which one to panic about first:

1. Rick and Wilkes leaving, possibly as early as next week
2. The need to recruit replacements while fundraising
3. The impact of doing so on the fundraising
4. The product not really working overall right now
5. Whether I can ever be part of a small team

Here, I attempt to craft a response. And probably provide a bucket for thoughts that could never go in a reasonable response:

—

My motivations for a visit were pretty simple. I was already planning for face time, especially with the engineering time. Cindy’s mom was just taken off of her medication and could die next week, or in three months. I can travel in the near future, but have no idea about after that. I’ve got an alternative proposal, though.

I hear clearly, in your note and in our call last week, that you’re upset, and the current situation is not worth it to you. I see you saying it’s because I demand intense control, and also because you are feeling process thrash.

I have an idea for moving forward.

Let’s do two zoom discussions:

In the first, I focus on deep listening, to ensure I really understand your opinions and experience, and how my behavior impacts them. I won’t defend, respond, or anything; just learn and capture. 

Then, we do the reverse: I share where I’m at, and what I was thinking in the areas that are making you suffer. I also want to be able to share my own side of what we’ve been wrestling through.

After that, we should be able to figure out what a path forward might look like, or if there even is one.

If you’re amenable, I would appreciate your guidance on how to schedule them. I’d recommend end of day on Friday, but I know this kind of call has a much bigger impact on your schedule, and I’m happy to fit your preferences.

Thanks,
Luke

—



Wow. There’s a lot there. I’m blown away.

I believe you. Your feelings and opinions are legitimate, and I want to respect them. But I don’t understand them. The conversation last Friday was a dramatic change from from our call a couple of weeks ago, when you said you understood my perspective. I felt like we had a breakthrough. Yet I read your note this morning as saying you’re so upset you’ve already decided to leave. That was mostly clear in your words last Friday, too.

I think, and I hope, our relationship is salvageable. I’d love to hear the same from you. At the least I’d hope it’s worth a try, given all the years and energy behind it.



Why to travel now is easy:

I was already planning to get face time with at least everyone in engineering, probably in June. Cindy’s mom just got taken off of cancer meds, and this coming week has suddenly turned into the only week it’s realistically ok for me to be away. She could die next week, or in three months, or who knows? I have to be here for Cindy and my kids.

As to why:

My initial motivation was just to get face time with everyone. Once you made it clear last week how unhappy you are, it shifted.

In my family, growing up, we solved pretty much all problems the same way: Talk them through, at high intensity, until they were resolved.

I’ve since learned that no one else, ever, wants to solve problems like that. 

But I do think there would be value in you and I having extended conversation, where we can lay our opinions and preferences on the table and see if it’s worth resuscitating the relationship, or if we just build a plan for your exit from here. That seems to have become more urgent with your note this morning.

You have made it very clear that spending time not coding makes you angry. Yet there have been a bunch of these problems building up, with no clear forum for working them through. My visiting would hopefully provide that forum. It would be our own little strategic seclusion.

I want you to stay. I’ve been clear for a long time I see you as a long time leader for us, and I get a ton from your work, at least as much outside of code as in.

But you’re apparently pissed off at me.

And I am honestly mystified at why. You say I demand an intense level of control, but... I can’t think of a single time where I demanded you build something a specific way, tried to override any over your decisions, or even said no to you.

I assume you’re speaking of Datomic, but I don’t see how. For all that you demand I respect your experience there, you are rejecting mine. It is not reasonable to continue working on a project, indefinitely, that will either pass or fail someday, with no projections, no deadline, no nothing. I’ve done this before. I know the costs of shipping incrementally, I know the costs of doing Big Bang releases, and my experience says we made a mistake planning for a Big Bang, and we should set a deadline to switch strategies if it hasn’t shipped by then. I think that deadline should have been last week.

If that’s what you’re calling controlling, IMO that’s unfair. These are different but perfectly reasonable strategies. And so far, you have been able to run the other strategy for close to three months with total control and very little in the way of discussion.

If that’s not what you mean by controlling, I don’t know what else would fit.

If anything, I think most of your feedback has been about the granularity of my opinions: You want me to give higher level guidance, not detailed. I’m happy to have that conversation. But when? Where? How? Every time I try to engender a conversation about this stuff, I get radio silence, or complaints that you should be coding instead of in meetings.

You say we’ve experienced intense process thrash, but... we basically have no process. We’re using a markdown file nearly identical to the file we used last fall. All that’s changed is where the markdown file is.

So my goal would be to understand. And to see if there’s a real, fundamental disagreement, or if this is something we can get back on track.

I’ve got a ton of respect for you, and for Wilkes. There have been times we’ve worked really well together. I want to find a way to make this work. And I’m up for putting in the effort to ensure it does, today and in the future.

But you’d have to want that.

If you have decided to leave, I hope you can see that this is not a typical role where you’re just part of a larger team. I’d need to work through with you what a transition would look like, how long it would take, and how to manage that while I’m fundraising.

If you can commit to not leaving me in the lurch, with a minimum of notice, I am comfortable being patient. Hopefully our relationship is worth that, and you’re not in such a hostile environment you just can’t stand it. We’ve barely spoken in a month.

Your message made it sound like you’ve already decided to leave, and it’s just a question of when and how. If that’s the case, then, please let me know ASAP so we can plan accordingly.

---
Things that I want to say but almost assuredly will not:



You’ve made it clear you don’t want to be in the product conversations, because coding is so much more important, but then you won’t abide by decisions made in those conversations. We’ve done everything we can, everything you’ve asked, to make them more accessible, but they’ve just been ignored.

I don’t mind not being the decision maker. But someone has to make them. I look at things like Muting, where you basically said no, you won’t build that, but then won’t do the work to replace it with something else, or work with me to come up with a better answer.

You’ve become a blocker for the main prioritization decisions. You’ve said in no uncertain terms you won’t build Muting as I spec’d it. You’ve got ideas for how to do some equivalent, but aren’t doing the work to carry those ideas to something that can be built. 



I’ve bent over backward to give you, and to a lesser extent Wilkes, everything you’ve asked for. We’ve got a hilariously minimalist process that’s barely changed in nine months. (I have no idea what process thrash you meant when you mentioned it.) I try to copy the Shape Up book as you recommend, but can’t get your engagement. I try to change the process — summarized RFC emails, for example — to accommodate your requests, and those get ignored.



The only two examples I can come close to seeing are our respective preferences for how to handle the Datomic transition, and the fact that I asked to understand the back end.

I’ve no idea if you care about the latter at all. I’m happy to explain why, if it matters to you. Again, I don’t 

You said you wouldn’t build my Muting pitch, and there it’s sat, calmly waiting for you to be willing to spend time on a different answer. You said you wouldn’t read the actual pitches — which are adapted from a process that you specifically requested we adopt — so we built the RFC emails as a summary. We never got a reply to those.





I saw the risk of what you bring up: That I could go out there and exacerbate what you’re suffering from by trying to get control of things. Ten years ago Luke would likely have done so. I think I can largely avoid that today, although obviously I’m still me and I can not pick how you experience my behavior.

My motivation is higher level than that.

Our conversations over the last few months have been a confusing combination of useful, generative discussion and dysfunctional arguments. I’ve been whiplashed between, say, the conversation a couple of weeks ago when you said you could finally see things from my perspective, and wondered about that decision to have me avoid code, to last Friday where you basically said I’ve created a hostile work environment and you can’t stand working here. I get told you won’t build Muting as the team has spec’d it, but then can’t get you to provide any guidance on how to fix it.

My hope was that being in person provide some combination of context and time that would allow us to get the entire conversation out, and we could get to a state where we can confidently and comfortably communicate with each other again.

The goal was to get back to partnership.

Again, 2-4 weeks from now, after Datomic shipped but before other key prioritization decisions have been made, was better timing. I just can’t likely travel then.

Your message this morning indicates you’ve already made your decision, so there might not be much point. But if you are still going to be here in a month or two, we need to figure out how to work together instead of at odds.

I’m frankly mystified by how my behavior can be construed as a need for “intense control”, given how far I’ve been from so many engineering decisions and how hard I’ve worked to accommodate every demand you and Wilkes have made. Yes, I have heard you when you’ve expressed this opinion before. I can’t seem to get enough detail from you to understand and mitigate this, and no one else on the team is seeing what you’re seeing.

I’ve got a ton of respect for you and Wilkes. There have been times we’ve worked really well together. I’m absolutely up for fighting to find a way of working together that works for both of us, today and in the future.

But you’d have to want to fight for it, too.

If you have decided to leave, I need at least a month’s notice to ensure business continuity. I hope you see this is not a typical role where you’re just part of a larger team.