# 2021.06.02 - Karin Discussion, and lots of investor passes
Rick’s last day is 6/17, so [[Karin]] and I largely focused on that.

Beforehand, I had been having a hard day. Feeling very non-confident about raising this round, for reasons I can’t entirely explain. I sent out a bunch of check-in emails yesterday, and they seem to pretty consistently be resulting in people passing.

I’ve been mentally crunching into a panic attack most of the day.

But, also, secretly hoping I have to shut the company down and can quit.

But also dreadfully afraid of exactly that.

One thing I realized while pondering it all was that I’ve been beating myself up about not investing in marketing, and in truth, I should have just hired a marketing person. Or I should have worked harder to find the right person to work on it.

Two things of note came out of the conversation with Karin:

# Hiring to fill gaps
I seem to have a pattern of hiring people to fill gaps in myself, vs just adding skills to the table. This was absolutely the case for Bill and Brian. And while it’s not a perfect fit for Rick — I was excited to work with him — it’s fair to say one of the dysfunctions was definitely around my striving to create space in my perceived weak areas, especially around operations.

# Be clear about what I won’t delegate in engineering
I’ve gotten good at being clear about what parts of marketing I won’t delegate (mostly branding). I need to get that same clarity on engineering.

Because no matter what, there will still be parts of this I don’t let go of. I should be clear to myself, at least, and ideally to the team. It will also likely affect who I am willing to hire. There’s no need for an architect to think about the domain if I’m going to own most of that. Theoretically someone should be able to collaborate with me. But I’d need to be sure of that.

In practice, that’s probably too simplistic. I’m not likely to own the domain at the level necessary to write code. But I’m certainly always going to want to be part of that world.

I’m not sure this would have prevented this problem with Rick, but 🤷‍♂️.

# Dutiful
I need to revisit the idea of hiring dutiful people, those who actually want to do what I tell them.

I naturally gravitate toward people who are independent thinkers, but they are apparently not actually a great fit for me and how I work.

Worth keeping in mind as I look to hire more people after the round, though.

# Other topics
We talked a bit about trauma, and I admitted that my work with Clickety has made clear to me that I am still not healed from the trauma I suffered at Puppet. She recommended I consider [[EMDR]], which is some kind of eye movement thing to help heal trauma. I can’t realistically do that because my eyes are messed up enough, but she said I can also do some kind of knee tapping thing. I’ll have to research it.

We talked a bit about Rick, and what might be causing him to act this way. I don’t think we learned much in the process.


