Words from Wilkes this morning:

Here are my thoughts as of this morning.

Last week we were mostly left alone and had a hyper-productive week. We had a meeting on Friday that has since derailed our focus. That I am writing this now rather than adding future activity events to the Datomic activity feed is a problem.

I understand your frustration with the lack of certainty around a timeline, but I don't know how to address that. You asked me for an estimate before. I gave you 3 weeks with the caveat that I was "making the number up based on nothing." 3 weeks later it became a problem and was brought up in most planning discussions. You've said that we've agreed that estimates aren't really a thing, yet here we are.

I sincerely believed that we would have been done by now. I was wrong. However, I am very happy with the progress we have made and the changes to the system that come from moving to Datomic. I don't know how long until it is done, but we are getting closer everyday. I believe that moving to Datomic was and still is the right decision. I believe the fastest way for us to do that is by staying the course. That has a level uncertainty that is uncomfortable, but I don't see that we should change strategies at this point.

I came across this a few weeks ago and may be helpful:

 > Starting at the wrong place is very stress provoking. Starting from where you are and what you have and then moving forward is very encouraging and rewarding as you see progress toward your goal. However, many people start from where they want to be and what they want to have and then look to see how far off they are and become demoralized. To them, every day is measured as still being behind and lacking. -- Steve Peters

—

My response:

Your comment speaks as much to philosophy as to our current situation. I’d love to discuss these topics at some point when it would not be disruptive to you.

I’m writing to check in on you, though, not Datomic.

I want to make sure I hear how you’re doing, not just Rick.

Can we talk at 5pm tomorrow your time?

—

In particular, I think it’s critical to differentiate between the processes and strategies that work for features that can be built in a week vs those that take months. I still believe that spending days on estimates to derisk them is nearly always a bad investment. But I also don’t believe we can operate in this state for much longer without the company entering a critical failure mode.

At this point, though, I’m really only concerned with one issue.

Rick has all but decided to leave Clickety. He made that pretty clear in the call last Friday, and confirmed yesterday he’s unwilling to invest in making it work.

To what extent does he speak for you?

If you can commit to being here at least three months after Datomic ships, then I’m happy to leave this discussion for later.

But if both of you are planning to quit the minute you finish, then I need to know so the team can start making plans for how to handle it.

And FWIW, my whole life has been built around dreaming of something and trying to make it. To ask me to stop doing that is to ask me to stop being. 

Far from being a source of demoralization to me, it has been a source of inspiration, joy, challenge, fulfillment, and wealth.

My belief that we should be doing Datomic differently comes from my years of experience building and shipping large projects, not from a personal desire. Those years of experience deserve respect as much as yours do. It’s not some mechanical compliance to an ideology; it’s lived experience about the best way to mitigate risk on large projects.



—

In particular:
- In general, we have accepted that estimates are a work of risk mitigation that don’t make sense, because we ship early and often. The estimates are time spent with little reward and even less provided certainty. We have no set strategy for when we stop shipping early and often. I don’t think it’s appropriate to apply tools and practice meant for features that take a week to build to those that take multiple months to build.
- My whole life has been built around dreaming of something and trying to make it. To ask me to stop doing that is to ask me to stop being. Far from being a source of demoralization to me, it has been a source of inspiration, joy, challenge, fulfillment, and wealth. I understand the Buddhist mantra of desire being the source of suffering, and in general, I have not my goals become mere gaps that cause me pain. But I’m far from being able to claim that how I do things always works well for the people around me.
