# My Hardest Time as a CEO
I founded Puppet in 2005, and ran it for nearly 12 years, until it was almost 500 employees. I am incredibly proud of what I did there, and it’s one of the most profound experiences I’ve had in my life. So much of what I consider my strengths and weaknesses, successes and failures, exist within and because of that role.

However, at the end of 2015, I concluded it was time for me to step down as CEO, to leave the company I founded. It was a tough decision, but I was convinced at the time — and remain so today — that it was the right one. However, there was one major contributor to it that I look back on and regret, and it’s no exaggeration to say that it was my hardest time as a CEO. It was when I concluded that, no matter how well I executed, no matter how hard I tried, Puppet would still be a racist and sexist company.

I don’t mean that it would be more racist and sexist than normal companies; if anything, I think the work that I did there goes a long ways to ensure it will always be less so than the average US organization. What I mean is that, given the system in which Puppet lives, we can successfully be different from that system, but we can not be unrelated. No matter my goals, I’m hiring people who have only worked in that system, who are educated in that system, who do not see the implicit biases created and entrenched by that system.

At its heart, this isn’t even a moral conclusion, it’s just a logical one, regardless of whether you think bias is a moral problem or not. There are basically no organizations that can operate outside the system of their culture, their country, or their educational system, and if you are building an organization whose goals are counter to that system, then your greatest accomplishment is limited to being different than the system.

In this case, the systemic problems I was trying to address are the massive disparities in how women and minorities are treated relative to white (and some Asian) men in this country.  For those with an open mind, it’s trivial to see that our country, the United States of America, is racist and sexist, and I had really set my sights on creating a company that wasn’t. In the end, I concluded I could not, and it was too much for me.

I’ll put up a half-hearted defense of my statement about the US here, but it’s worth noting: I am expressing an opinion as a means of explaining a decision I made more than two years ago. Even should you desire to, there’s not much point in your arguing about my beliefs of two years ago. I haven’t changed that belief, and if anything the election of Trump — who basically ran on a platform of exploiting women and oppressing minorities — has made our country’s racism and sexism even more clear. My point is basically, if this article even gets read, I expect more controversy from my claims about the US than about my personal journey, even though the claims are basically irrelevant now because I’m talking about a decision I made long ago.

What is it that convinces me our country is racist and sexist? It’s easiest to look at numbers. Look around at our top leadership positions and see to what extent they match the demographics of our country. Look at the top leadership and boards in US corporations, look at our congress, courts, and executive branch (even more damningly, look at their history). Are they, or have they ever been, 51% women? Are they, or have they ever been, 12% Black or African American, 5% Asian, nearly 3% multiracial? I’ll save you some research: No. No, they haven’t. You don’t even need to look at economic outcomes, wealth gaps, or the litany of laws that enforce the oppression, although those certainly help to make the point.

Once you see that they haven’t been represented, you have a choice: You can conclude that white men truly are superior, and that’s why they have all the power, or you can conclude that there is something about our country that keeps white men in power. If you acknowledge even a small amount of systemic oppression of women and minorities, it becomes a question of degree, so it really is a binary question.

And just coincidentally, if you conclude that it’s the people and not the system, you have two big problems: First, you have to somehow convince us that your belief in white men’s statistically verifiable superiority is so total that it explains the extent of the disparity (that is, white men have to be so superior to white women that we can justify having zero women justices until quite recently, zero out of 45 presidents, etc.). And second, you have to somehow explain how countries like Japan and China, which have white men as citizens, instead seem to have Japanese and Chinese men dominating their positions of power. If white men are so superior, then why don’t they dominate there? I assume your answer would be, “Well, they’re biased but we’re not”, which is obviously poppycock, but hey, if you can look at Jim Crow, redlining, a history of slavery, women only getting the right to vote in our grandparents’ lifetime, and a huge list of other systemic oppressions of women and minorities and conclude we’ve magically expunged all of those biases from our country in the last few decades, then I’ve got a hat to sell you that’s made in China but is going to make America great.

There were two critical events for me in the second half of 2015, one which made international news, and one which (quite rightly) basically no one has heard of.

In the fall of that year, I began hearing that some women at the company were upset at how they were being treated by their peers and managers. This quite concerned me, and it didn’t match my perception of how the company was doing. However, following the principles of building great products (“The facts live outside the building”), I concluded the only reasonable way I could understand it was by talking to the people who had this opinion. So, I set up a casual dinner with about eight women who I know would talk directly to me, and who also were upset in some way.

This dinner was a huge shock to me, both in the generalities and the specifics. It’s no exaggeration to say that this dinner directly resulted in people leaving the company, and also directly resulted in some of the women at that table staying for years. I listened closely to them, both the trends they were seeing and the specific issues they were having (in those cases where they were willing to share), and I was able to share with them what I was working on in this area already (such as an improved Open Door policy). It was an incredibly powerful conversation for me, enough so that I began having a quarterly dinner with a random selection of women in the company. (One of the women at one of the first dinners wrote a program to randomly select women who had not yet joined that dinner to attend the next.)

I walked away from this dinner absolutely crushed. My perception of how we were doing was quite far from the reality. People who I cared about, who our company needed the best from, were going to leave soon because of how they were treated (and in fact, many did). How had it gotten this bad, and how did I not realize it?

It’s an easy answer. Even though I was fighting systemic bias in this area (I will pass on defending my credentials, but suffice it to say I am comfortable with them even in retrospect), I wasn’t doing well enough. Even worse, I wasn’t doing the hard, critical work to validate that my work was having the desired effect. I was observing, but not closely enough, and not directly enough where the people were affected.

For what it’s worth, the second meeting was also a revelation. The first dinner was composed of the women who were most upset, who had the biggest grievances, but the second was more oriented around perspective and experience. While these women acknowledged the company had room to improve, they also almost universally said that from the perspective of how women in general and they in particular were treated it was the best, or at least one of the best, organizations they’d ever worked in. That was a huge relief to me, and gave me a lot to think about and work from over the next months and years, but by then my heart was already broken and I found I could never really come back from it. (I want to be clear that I’m not blaming any of the women at that first dinner. I own my conclusions and decisions.)

Those who tracked the timing have likely already guessed the other major influence: Michael Brown being shot in cold blood by sworn defenders of the peace in Ferguson, MO. You’re half right. I was shook[sic]() by this event, and part of why I was shook is that I was well primed. I mostly grew up in Nashville, TN, whose racial segregation is very obvious once you look for it, and by coincidence I ended up attending college in Portland, OR, the whitest metropolis in the country and in a state founded as a white refuge whose constitution (and systemic activities) prohibited non-whites from moving here until 1929. (I picked the school knowing almost nothing about it or Oregon, except that it was a good school with no fraternities or organized sports and was very far from Nashville.)

Ironically, one of the experiences that set me on my path to learn a more complete history of the US was utterly failing a test. I took AP US History my senior year, and got straight As the whole year, so I naturally took the AP test in hopes of getting college credit. I learned the morning of the test that it heavily covered the civil war. Uh, what? We literally did not talk about the civil war in our AP US History class at my magnet school. I had a vague idea of who Abe Lincoln was, knew he’d been shot, knew we had a war, but not really much more than that.

Badly failing this test (which my principal had paid for, because I couldn’t afford the $40 or so, and she was so confident I would pass) caused me to realize that my teacher strongly disagreed with the AP test on what mattered in America, which gave me the first clue I couldn’t ignore that something was seriously wrong with the system. That set me on the path to read a lot of other stuff, although I’m embarrassed to say I focused most of my twenties on technical books so I could build a career, rather than trying to better understand our own country and culture. My own situation certainly afforded that space, in that it did not require I do any real thinking about this problem. Suffice it to say it does not require a great deal of deep searching to uncover quote how systemically our country has oppressed minorities, and especially African Americans, beginning with bringing them over as slaves and now often extending to telling them to go back where we stole them from.

So, I was primed respond strongly to this event, but a much smaller experience really nailed it for me. I happened to be meeting up with some extended family while on a work trip, and I mentioned to my aunt how upset I was at Mr. Brown being shot. Her basic response was, “Well, he was pretty big”.

He was pretty big. As if that justified his being shot down in the street. As if that justified his not getting a day in court. As if that justified him being treated like an armed murderer, wired on PCP. I already knew our country was biased, but that personal connection, that casual dismissal of a person’s life because he was large (and, unspoken, black), really enforced for me how much the problem is the system.

At least in the circles I run in, I always see the jokes about the racist uncle ruining the holidays. This experience really dialed into my brain that it’s never that one person, that literally everyone in this country is raised with a decent list of biases against women and minorities (even they themselves often have these biases), whether they know it or not, whether they like it or not.

Most people who know me would say I do not have a timid ego. I am comfortable trying for big things, I don’t mind pushing heavy rocks up the steepest hills. This epiphany, though, rocked me. It was immediately obvious that the closest thing to success I could ever experience in the fight to build a racism-free workplace was, well, not going to be that great.

I don’t mean that I couldn’t have hired African Americans, put them in positions of power, and helped them succeed. I could. (Although, again, I wish I had done much better here.) What I mean is, even if I had done all this, nearly all of their coworkers would still have been raised in such a racist context that these African American employees would be fighting implicit bias every step of the way, just like the women above were fighting implicit (and, unfortunately, explicit) bias in their own work.

I quickly tied this system problem with minorities to the system problem with women, and concluded that this system would cause me to fail to eradicate sexism, too, just as it would for racism.

I could make it better, but I couldn’t win.

So I ran.

I cowered.

I told my board I was quitting.

This is not an excuse, merely an explanation. I am not proud, but facts do not require my approbation. I know myself well enough to understand what happened and why, but I did not see it then. 
I am very competitive, but, ironically, I hate competing. I so prefer winning that I generally don’t enter competitions that I don’t think I can win. (This exhibits itself in my children, who prefer to flip the game board once they realize they’re not going to win.) In life, this has tended towards my exploring and pushing in areas others find uninteresting (which works well for early-stage entrepreneurship, thankfully). Once everyone else is interested, suddenly I have a lot more competition, and a lot less likelihood of success. No thanks, I’ll go find something to work on that others find boring.  I’m pretty comfortable with this behavior, and I see no reason generally to work to change it. If anything, I think it’s a competitive advantage to ignore trends and focus on under-invested areas.

In this case, though, it caused me to inappropriately declare defeat. Not that I shouldn’t have stepped down — again, that was the right choice for me and the company, for my personal health, the company’s success, and my own goals and desires — but this shouldn’t have been such a large contributor to my decision, nor should I have allowed myself to grow so despondent. (Although note I still fought for all of this throughout my tenure, and do to this day as a board member.)

Once I declared my desire to step down, and then began the process of finding a replacement, I was able to see the world through a completely different lens. So many things changed from that one decision — not least of which was that I was suddenly, for the first time since I’d taken VC money, not afraid of losing my job — that I was able to see things that I could never have seen when I planned to stay in the seat. Over the course of a few months, I came to realize how big a part this conclusion played in my decision. It gave me more impetus to fight in some areas, but I think to this day I remain injured, incapable of fighting certain kinds of related fights.

I can’t say what you should have learned from this article. I don’t have a conclusion I want you to reach. My goal in writing this was to share this step in my own journey, share my pain to lessen it somewhat, but also to share it in hopes that others might get some example from it, and maybe at least make a different mistake than I have.

