I met with the cardiologist, made an appointment with an allergist, called an ophthalmologist, and did ocular PT today. Too much.

The PT person was new: Debbie. In most ways I liked her better than Shannon. She seemed more opinionated. And probably it was just nice to have a tabula rasa. But there were a couple of places where we just failed to communicate, which I don’t feel like happens with Shannon.

Key lesson from the day:

# Cardiologist
I can take the beta blockers forever. If they’re working, don’t change them.

I can use my body however feels right. Listen to my body, but otherwise, you’re fine.

For now, we’re in a hold and observe mode. Check in every six months or so, with an echocardiogram.

# Ocular Physical Therapy
Debbie was a nice reset, just because she didn’t walk in with existing experience and opinions. The clean slate was good.

We ended up talking about my possibly taking a med for anxiety or anti-depression. She highly recommended it. She said multiple people have taken this drug as part of PT and had a very good impact.

She gave me some kind of differentiation between optometrists and ophthalmologists: The former is for managing your brain’s interpretation of the outside world, and the latter is for managing eye disease. So I probably want the former, not the latter.

I need to find a doctor I can partner with on this. It’s clearly not an ENT, but right now, I’m just flying blind-ish with Shannon. She recommended an optometrist:

Macson Lee
10970 SW Barnes Rd
Beaverton, OR. 97225
503-214-1396

# Allergies
I made an appointment. They can check on things like an egg allergy, but I’d have to go to a non-science person to figure out sensitivities.

# Ophthalmology 
Still working on an appointment.