Is it the need for fundraising that’s driving me off? The lack of partnership?

It’s embarrassing. Shouldn’t I be able to commit? Shouldn’t I want to?

What would committing even look like?

Should I just start writing code and see what happens? I know I would be addicted if I did that. But that’s not inherently good.

Maybe I should just start following the rule I want to create for others: Everything you build must be done so anyone can use it, and anyone can pay for it.

The infrastructure will be expensive, but each product will get cheaper.

Is it that I’m afraid of others’ approval?

Somewhat, yes. I’m afraid I won’t get it. Also afraid of what I’ll be willing to compromise to get it.

The truth is I just want to do what I want to do, and I don’t want others to need to be involved. I don’t want people pseudo-signed up, I don’t want to sell them, change my plans, modify my dreams.

But I also don’t want to be stuck, to be committed somewhere then find I don’t actually want to work on it after all.

Could I do the studio, but do it as a YC-style thing? I spend some time, write small checks? Focus it entirely on finding the entrepreneurs, rather than building it myself, but then recognizing that I have to turn them into founders, I have to lay the path for them.

It sucks not having someone to partner on this, someone with a common vision.

Or even a community to work through, people who have similar but not equal opinions. I can get feedback, but not from anyone invested.

I undervalued that part of Puppet’s history. It’s true I had no partner, but I had an academic environment in which to learn.

Let’s be honest about the real problem here, though:

I’m just not really working much. I’m consuming hours, but I’m working nothing like 40 hours a week, much less 50. I’m not hooked, stuck, committed, obsessed. I’m a dilettante.

If I were working hard, I would run out of options other than just doing the damn work.