The experiment was a success. The results were negative.

I spent six months not drinking, and I feel like I learned nothing.

Then I went back to drinking for six months, and remembered why I quit.

I was hoping to have some big revelation while not drinking — massive increase in brain power, sudden burst of energy, huge drop in weight. None of that really happened. I felt pretty similar. Often woke up with headaches. Never really felt more energetic. Didn’t lose a pound.

Then I went back to drinking, again as an experiment. I was kind of hoping that the six months would just be so fucking clear that I’d never go back. But that’s not what happened. So I started again.

By then I had mostly gotten past the hard problems of not drinking. I’d been to each of the kinds of events I feared. I’d had the conversation a bunch of times. I’d gone through heavy libation replacement (which is probably why I didn’t lose weight, at least at first) then slowly was able to back it down.

I think for the first couple of months, I probably did ok. I still drank basically every night — I might have gone a night or two without a drink — but I didn’t immediately ramp up the drink quantity.

But by the end of the year, it had all fallen apart again. I was back to drinking 3-5 drinks every night. I think probably closer to 3 for non-holiday times, but still, not anywhere near where I wanted to be.

And I was just low energy all the time. I don’t really remember how much energy I had in my non-drinking period, but I do know I’ve struggled to get off the ground the last six months.

As always, there’s more going on than that. Relationship issues, stress about Puppet, trying to get moving on the studio/etc. But I am confident that went into it some.

So I’m back to not drinking again. I don’t love what I give up, and I don’t yet have a strong opinion on what I mean by “not drinking”, but it seems the correct set of trade-offs. I’d love to be able to drink moderately each day, but that does not seem to be an option. I’d love to have night periodically where I drink, but again, that doesn’t seem to be an option. It might be I can drink while out but not while home, although that seems unfair to Cindy, for some reason. Maybe it would motivate us to have more date nights, I don’t know.

But at least at this point, the bit needs to flip the other way.