# 2019.09.17 - a power tool suite
Is this believable? What other things do we need? Why do we need them?

We know we need a better calendar app. Duh.

Email is always there, has to be, and we could always have a better app. Unclear how much any given app could take over, given how broad the user base has to be. You could make a better app, but never really one with adobe-level pervasiveness. Well, not again. Microsoft had it once, maybe still does, but no one else can. Probably?

In some ways, this is a question of how to replace the spreadsheet.

Airtable is making the biggest bet on this, and might just have an unassailable lead.

But they probably don’t.

But realistically, beyond that one app I’ve been wanting to build forever, what actually is available?

Contacts, Calendar, Pipelines, ...?

If there aren’t other products, we don’t have a portfolio.

But I don’t need to know what they are out of the gate.

One strategy is just to reinvent the things we think we already understand.

But I don’t think that’s a great one. I prefer the idea of asking, what are the actual problems that knowledge workers have? And what would the perfect product for that problem look like?

What are some ideas?
* Making decisions (a funnel-like view)
* Managing open state (long list of things, often browser tabs, but also just windows, that capture and reload state)
* Tracking work to be done
* Communicating state

What makes these better solutions?

The first is that we focus on the work to be done, rather than the way we’ve worked before, and solve for that. The second is that we assume other apps will need and use this data. The third is that we’ll build powerful programming-like systems into all of them.

Or something?

There’s both fear and excitement around the idea that this is related to the problems the semantic web is targeting. The fear is, if they haven’t solved it, what makes me think I can? The excitement is, this is kind of a perfect fit of knowledge we as a society have, but have not yet applied in a useful way. Even looking at the Schema stuff, that’s barely visible to the wider world, when instead it should be used every day.