# 2020.03.23 - Rebuilding a writing practice
It’s been more than a year since I kept a writing practice.

I initially backed away because I didn’t want to write a book, and all of my topics seemed like they were approaching book-length in size.

But it was also easy to fall out of it, as I focused more on Clickety and on my near term problems.

Right now, there are a bunch of barriers to a regular writing practice:

* Infrastructure problems: I want to write on my ipad, in a focused setting that is not where I work the rest of the time. But my writing choices are not working out well there. I really like Ulysses for writing — primarily because it lets me sort however I want, rather than alphabetically. But it is not a good player on the ipad, so I find myself in weird places trying to force it to work.
* Priority conflict: Writing is more of a personal goal than a related-to-clickety goal, so it’s hard to know how to prioritize my time. I’ve not yet learned that being selfish is one of my jobs, and instead I’m worried that I’m setting a bad example or something.
* Unclear topics: I ran through most of the writing I really wanted to do, and not much seems to be replacing it right now.
* Greater impact: I am very happy to be publishing on my own site, and to own my own content, but I would like a way to place my writing in other places, so it gets more impact.
* Improved skills: I need a writing coach, or at least an editor. I’m not getting good enough, fast enough, and I really do want to take this seriously.
* Publishing infrastructure: I hate Wordpress now, but it’s where all of my writing is. I seem to be unwilling to add more content to it, even though doing so doesn’t actually increase my migration burden, since all migration will be automated, rather than article by article. (I assume.)

All of these are tractable, and most of them are downright tactical.

I need to take a hard look at replacing Ulysses for my blog. Can I just switch to IA Writer, or something similar?

Looks like I’ll try that for a while.

Hmm. Even trying for one second... it breaks the whole notion of flow from X to Y. Folders are sorted by most recent, rather than Idea -> Writing -> Published.

I mean. I wasn’t using that much anyway, so maybe that’s irrelevant? Maybe I should trim down the number of folders, and it will all be simpler?

But it’s just ugly. I can already see myself thinking, “hmm, if I just added numbers to each folder...” Yuck.

Still. I’ll try it for a while. At least it will be straight-through, and I’ll stop fighting the app.

The only question is, what do I do about publishing?

I guess this makes my need for publishing work even more urgent.