# Home from North Dakota
I did not manage to do much thinking or any writing while gone, for all that I spent basically 7 days driving.

I came home what seem like the same problems I left with, except now it’s ten days later.

[[My relationship to alcohol]].
Weight.
My marriage.
Sex.
Clickety.
My founder psyche. (That’s probably five separate topics.)

Other than deciding to quit drinking (again), none of these feel like I can do anything about them.

Well. Clickety will resolve itself on its own if I just wait a couple of months.

I don’t feel like I can work on my marriage, because Cindy is already going through too much.

# On the bright side?
There are positives.

I seem to largely have resolved [[My vertigo]] problems. And unlike the last time, I think I had something to do with it. [[My physical therapy]] obviously made a big impact. And then getting reading glasses seems to have pushed me over the edge to being, basically, healthy. I still get twinges once in a while — maybe every couple of days — but none have impacted my work in a month or so. I can basically work at my desk all day now, which is the main measure in this case.

For all that it was a shit time, Cindy and I largely got along well over the last month. We worked well together, in general.

# Maybe not
Well. Mostly. There was a [[Marriage incident]] in North Dakota that seemed to really crush my spirit. Actually, now that I think about it, it happened on the way there. And I never really got my brain working again.

We were ordering food. And no matter how hard I tried, I just couldn’t talk to her about it. I specified a clear opinion about where to eat, and why. She said nothing in response. She then listed out every restaurant that was an option. And then asked for opinions as though I had not already given mine. I checked out, drank whiskey, and read while she explained the full option list to Bill, who we both knew would — just like his daughter — express absolutely no preference whatsoever.

Then — partially because I could not figure out what to say that I had not already said — I just executed my plan. It failed (the restaurant did not work for some reason), which is perfectly fine, so then I managed to extract a preference from her and ordered. (We got pizza. She went to pick it up.)
# Priorities
I obviously can’t work on all of this at once.

Most of it, I can’t work on at all.

I’ve given myself the last six months to just not care about alcohol. But this trip was way, way over the edge in drinking (again), and I just don’t think I can get done what I need to get done when I’m drinking. I just don’t do anything once I’m done working. I don’t have fun, I don’t get shit done.

I had chest pain ([[My symptoms]]) three times while in ND. Two of them really scared me. Chest pains by themselves aren’t cause for an emergency, but it was enough to remind me how much my first cardiologist said alcohol had an impact on the heart. With everything else, it just doesn’t seem worth it.

So that one, I’ve decided to change. I don’t know exactly what to. I’m “not drinking”. But at least until I’m confident it doesn’t work, I’ll try drinking with guests, and maybe while out. That will probably fail, and in a year I’ll find a different way to not-quite-quit.

Clickety is the most urgent.

My marriage seems the most important. But… I don’t think I can do anything with that, unfortunately. I just asked Veronica for some 1:1 time to talk to her about it.

I don’t really see how I can work on [[My management skills]] other than doing the work, and trying to be more brave. But, of course, I’ve got to get more money to even get a chance.

I’m going to work on [[My weight]] through being more conscious of what I eat, cutting alcohol, and restarting my exercise regime.

Clickety and the marriage seem to be the ones really causing me stress. Is anything else a material source of trouble?

The management skills piece is. I have real fear there. But… It’s not causing panic attacks.

I think constantly about [[My moving]]. But feel incredibly stuck. I can’t, realistically, move, and even if I could, where would I move?

Staying here is really hurting me.

But moving feels like making a statement — most likely a commitment — that I’m not sure I can make.

This is definitely part of the problem.

So Clickety, my marriage, and my feeling stuck while living here. Those are the ones causing panic attacks.
