*Situation: We have been working on the Datomic transition since the beginning of March. Rick and Wilkes have spent most of the last two weeks skipping all meetings, including 1:1s. We just had a status meeting where I was told to fuck off, in a much nicer way. Rick essentially said I’m creating a hostile work environment, without providing detail on how or whatever. He essentially threatened to leave a couple of times. *

*We’re no closer to having a functional conversation about how to ship. They rejected any possibility of shipping in increments. The only choices were basically, throw it all away and we leave, or let us do what we think is right.*

It is hard to hope.

I want to believe that I could be part of a team. But all of my evidence points to it being impossible.

I have worked well with people. I have partnered, collaborated. But not for very long. Not through iterations.

I’m trying something I’ve never done before, with people it should be possible with. And in some ways, it is working: We are building something that has not existed. We are doing something new and different.

But the experience is the same. People are unhappy, no one wants to partner with me. I am not good at inspiring people to succeed. I don’t push them enough, like Heidi, and when I do push, it’s in all the wrong ways.

Should I be trying to solve problems with Rick? With me? With both?

Can I, should I believe we can fix the current situation? Should I stick?

It seems to me, this relationship is not salvageable. Like with Lizzi, we don’t work well, and it’s probably not worth fixing.

Jason and Tiffany are fantastic. Really, really great. I could work with Jason for the rest of my life. Not that he has no flaws, but it’s a great partnership.

I think the world of Tiffany. She is struggling somewhat with prioritization, and feels overworked. But is in a great place to step up in a year or two to product management.

Rick, Sandy, and Wilkes... I think odds are not good.

It’s more than that. Experience says you should twist, never stick. If it’s not working, move on. I’ve reached the point with Rick where it feels like we need therapy, and that’s a death knell. With Wilkes, he’s just not present. With Sandy, I’m just not sure he can get on board. He’s got most of the assets, but he’s not interested.

Yes, I know the joke about the only thing common to all of my dysfunctional relationships.

