# My unhappy managing

(Pulled from the ‘How I got fired’ post, as this should stand along)

The biggest reason is that I didn’t feel good at my job.  I’m not saying I wasn’t good; I’m saying I didn’t feel good. Most of us know the difference between doing something we are good at, and doing something we are not good at. I love the struggle of something new, and the feeling of that struggle gradually being replaced by skill and comfort, by an understanding of the system you’re working in. Many of us have experienced that especially great feeling of flow, when you’re doing great work in a system you are skilled at using tools that make you better.

Well, I never got to the point where I really experienced flow very often as a CEO. It was my job to aggressively discover areas of incompetence in the company, gain just enough competence that I could hire someone, and then do so and move on. Thus, I was constantly in the mode of learning the very earliest stages of new things, and never got to the point where I actually understood anything to a level of depth.

In addition to my being unhappy, though, I made nearly everyone I worked with unhappy, too. It’s the weirdest thing. A lot of the people at Puppet really loved working there, and felt like they did great work, but a lot of people I worked directly with also said they had their worst-ever work experience in a room with me. It wasn’t just the daily interactions, though: On an ongoing basis, I made the people around me miserable. Yes yes, I know my job is to constantly up level them, to put pressure on them to improve. But shouldn’t it also be my job to help them succeed?  Well, the people around me never succeeded, either by my definition or (usually) theirs. When no one is succeeding, no one is happy.

I tended to do much better with people one or two levels removed, in that I tended to be happier with their work, and they tended to be happy at the company. A lot of this is that I understand management well enough (usually) to know that I shouldn’t be giving much in the way of direction to people who don’t work directly for me, but I also understood that it was my team’s job to make decisions and manage their teams, so when working in different parts of the org I could focus on doing the work, rather than on whether the individual was successful or not.

Coincidentally, between deciding to quit and getting fired, I embarked on an effort to rebuild the exec team at Puppet, and in doing so I dramatically leveled up my understanding of how to hire well and how my previous hiring had gone poorly. As I did this, I came to realize how much of my struggle, a large component of my misery was because of how misaligned I was with the people who worked directly for me. Every one of them was competent and capable, but very few of them wanted to work the way I wanted to work, the way I wanted them to work.

What this meant in practice was that I was always pushing them to operate in unnatural ways, and they were always failing to operate the way I would have liked. There was a huge amount of friction in our working relationship that meant that far too little of our energy was spent on moving the company forward. It’s no one’s fault but my own: These are competent people, generally, they just weren’t people I could work with. And in most cases, they weren’t people I felt I could fire, either. Let me give two examples.

Around the end of 2013, I hired a new head of engineering. In the lead up, our senior board member had a conversation with me about how he was afraid that I would never really be able to handle strong heads of engineering, because it was my strong focus. He also expressed a general fear at my ability to handle strong execs overall. This helps to explain why I was so unwilling to fire this guy once the problems became clear. It’s also worth noting that it took an incredibly long time to hire him in the first place, as I had to bring someone to Portland, and they had to be a fit for the role overall. So, I had loss aversion, and my reputation as CEO on the line. No big deal.

I had never had a competent head of engineering, someone who knew how to build and scale teams, and he quickly was a revelation, helping to unstick our pipeline for shipping product and bringing in much better middle management for quickly. However, problems quickly rose up. We had long complicated discussions about how to handle product management - who decided what to build, how would we structure it, etc. I handed him all of product management, because I had never done a good job of managing it, but then he basically shut me out of product planning, which made no sense.

I also came to realize he felt very strongly about shipping high quality software at the expense of speed of learning. He entrenched a slow and steady development methodology, which I constantly found myself fighting against.

Finally, he would get apoplectic if I directly worked with his team — some of which was justified, because of how much I freaked them out — which meant he was the control point for information.

This all came to a head when I finally hired a coach to work with the two of us. Yes, I was in therapy for six months with one of my execs, in a fast-moving startup. Not a good thing. It did actually help us build a better relationship, and we developed some relationship tools to help work through some of the serious problems we had working together. In the end, though, the biggest thing it gave me was clarity on how critical it is that executives focus on executing the CEO’s priorities, and that my head of engineering was unwilling to do so for mine. This clarity was a major step up in my hiring and management of my team, and still reverberates through how I think about the world.

Eventually, this head of engineering left, because the friction was just too high. It made sense for him and for us: I really like him, but I couldn’t work with him, and he couldn’t work with me. Then I had to spend the next year trying to unwind all the dysfunction that happens when the CEO and an exec can’t work well together. Trust me, it’s a lot of dysfunction.

Another example is my most successful exec ever, my head of sales. He worked for me for more than seven years, increasing our sales from $250k/year to something like $80m/year. By any measure, this is amazing work.

Unfortunately, at the end of that process we had a company I didn’t want to work at any more, one that sold in a way I disliked to people I didn’t really want to work with. Yay? How did that happen?

This case was harder to understand. I got along generally well with the head of sales, and he was clearly successful at his job. However, from day one there were foundational disagreements that we couldn’t really get past, primarily around how much we should be focusing on getting a deal done vs laying the groundwork for the next deal. Over time, our deals became more and more expensive to close, and the feedback loops to product and CS — necessary to reduce friction in sales — never developed, which meant our product got harder to use as our user got base got less sophisticated, which is the exact wrong direction.

It’s not fair to just blame my head of sales for that, but it is fair to say that he and I never really even managed to work on those hard problems together. We both knew they were major issues, but they were major issues we didn’t agree on strategies for resolving, which meant they just sat there, festering. In words, he disagreed and committed, but in practice, we ended up having different strategies for different parts of the company.

It’s impossible to think I could have done so at the time, but the right thing would have been to fire him as soon as I realized we couldn’t collaborate on this critical strategic questions, even though he was bringing in the dollars every day.